CERN DOCUMENT SERVER SOFTWARE (CDSware) README
==============================================

Revision: $Id$

CERN Document Server Software (CDSware) enables you to run your own
electronic preprint server, your own online library catalogue or a
digital document system on the web.  It complies with the Open Archive
Initiative metadata harvesting protocol and uses MARC21 as its
underlying bibliographic standard.

CDSware is developed at, and maintained by, the CERN Document Handling
Group.  At CERN, the CDSware installation manages over 400 collections
of data, consisting of over 600,000 bibliographic records, including
250,000 fulltext documents, covering preprints, articles, books,
journals, photographs, videos, and more.  Please consult
<http://cdsweb.cern.ch/> for details.

We aim at user friendliness and speed.  Among the features of CDS are:

  - Configurable portal-like interfaces for hosting various kind of
    collections.

  - Powerful search engine with Google-like syntax and integrated
    metadata, reference and fulltext searching.

  - User personalization, including document baskets and email
    notification alerts.

The CDS Software is free software licenced under terms of GNU General
Public Licence (GPL).  It is provided on an "as is" basis.  However,
please note that a support contract can be arranged with the CDS
Development Group in which we, the developers, can help you to
install, configure, and maintain the system (featuring email and
telnet support throughout the year), including development of new
local features should such a need arise.  If you are interested in
concluding a support contract with us, please contact the CDS
Development Group at <cds.support@cern.ch>.

CDSware runs on Unix-like systems and requires MySQL database server
and Apache/Python/PHP web application server.  Please consult the
INSTALL file for more information.

Good luck, and thanks for choosing the CERN Document Server Software.

       - CDS Development Group
         <cds.support@cern.ch>
         <http://cdsware.cern.ch/>
